Removing repositories from cloud (#2487)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/departments/support/process/removing-repositores-from-cloud.md

# Removing repositores from cloud

> This document is a guide on how to completely remove repositories from Sourcegraph cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is a guide on how to completely remove repositories from Sourcegraph Cloud.
```

## Prerequisites

> The user should have privileged access to be able to perform this on Sourcegraph cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user should have privileged access to be able to perform this on Sourcegraph Cloud.
```

⚠️ **WARNING:** Be careful to make sure everything checks out as per the removal request.

## Process of removing repositories

We consider the following kinds of repositories:

- Public forks of private repositories
- Public repositories that are made private
- Public repositories added by other users or organizations other than the owner of the repository
- Private repositories

The removal process is the same across all the visibility types listed above.

Depending on the environment, exec into `pgsql` with:

**Kubernetes**

```
kubectl exec -ti $PGSQL_POD -- psql -U sg
```

**Docker**

```
docker exec -it $PGSQL_CONTAINER -- psql -U sg
```

**Option 1 ('Hard' delete)**

A hard delete leaves no trace of the repository in the database

1. If you know the name of the repo by it's URI get the id:

```
SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';
```

> 2 . Delete the repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete the repo:
```

```
DELETE FROM repo WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;
```

**Option 2 ('Soft' delete)**

A soft delete does not permanently delete a repository in the database and allows it to be un-deleted in the future.

1. Get the id of the repo:

```
SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';
```

> 2. Rename the repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Soft delete the repo:
```

```

> UPDATE repo SET name = soft_deleted_repository_name(name), deleted_at = transaction_timestamp() WHERE deleted_at IS NULL AND id = <id_of_the_repo>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UPDATE repo SET name = soft_deleted_repository_name(name), deleted_at = transaction_timestamp() WHERE deleted_at IS NULL AND id = <id_of_the_repo>;
```

# Removing repositores from cloud

This document is a guide on how to completely remove repositories from Sourcegraph cloud.

## Prerequisites

The user should have privileged access to be able to perform this on Sourcegraph cloud.

> ⚠️ WARNING: Be careful to make sure everything checks out as per the removal request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ **WARNING:** Be careful to make sure everything checks out as per the removal request.
```

## Process of removing repositories

We consider the following kinds of repositories:

- Public forks of private repositories
- Public repositories that are made private
- Public repositories added by other users or organizations other than the owner of the repository
- Private repositories

The removal process is the same across all the visibility types listed above.

Depending on the environment, exec into `pgsql` with:

**Kubernetes**

```
kubectl exec -ti $PGSQL_POD -- psql -U sg
```

**Docker**

```
docker exec -it $PGSQL_CONTAINER -- psql -U sg
```

**Option 1 ('Hard' delete)**

A hard delete leaves no trace of the repository in the database

1. If you know the name of the repo by it's URI get the id:

```
SELECT id FROM repo WHERE name LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';
```

or

```
SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';

> ```

Reviewer 2: Are the queries exchanged in position since the point states the query is for lookup by URI?

Author: Got it to make sense with the new update. Referencing the URI only

2 . Delete the repo:

```
DELETE FROM repo WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;
```

**Option 2 ('Soft' delete)**

> A soft delete does not permanently delete a repository in the database. What a soft delete means is that a repository can be un-deleted in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A soft delete does not permanently delete a repository in the database and allows it to be un-deleted in the future.
```

1. Get the id of the repo:

```
SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';
```

2. Rename the repo:

```
UPDATE repo SET name = soft_deleted_repository_name(name), deleted_at = transaction_timestamp() WHERE deleted_at IS NULL AND id = <id_of_the_repo>
```

Note: Deleting a repository from the database does not automatically delete the data on disk (in `gitserver`). This requires an additional step.

> To get the correct repo in `gitserver` you will need to get it's `shard_id` by running the following command in the database;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To get the correct repo in `gitserver` you will need to get it's `shard_id` by running the following command in the database:
```

## Prerequisites

Such a request assumes that the user who intends to delete a repository on behalf of a customer and as per their request, has privileged access to be able to do this on cloud.

An **important** note on this is to be extra vigilant and careful to make sure everything checks out as per the removal request.

Regardless of repository visibility, the process is basically the same and you have the following options to be help accomplish this.

These are as follows:

## Process of removing repositories

We consider the following kinds of repositories;

1. Public forks of private repositories,
2. Public repositories that are made private,
3. Public repositories added by other users or organizations other than the owner of the repository and,
4. Private repositories.

The removal process is the same across all the visibility types listed above.

You can;

Exec into `pgsql` with either;

`kubectl exec -ti $PGSQL_POD -- psql -U sg` in Kubernetes or;

`docker exec -it $PGSQL_CONTAINER -- psql -U sg` in Docker

then;

> - **Option 1**

Reviewer: I think we should mention that option 1 is a hard deletion and no trace of the repo will remain on our database. 

The other option will "soft" delete the repo which allows it to be undeleted in future.

1. If you know the name of the repo by it's URI get the id of the repo that you would like to delete by running: `SELECT id FROM repo WHERE name LIKE 'example.com/example/repo';` or `SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo'; `
2. Delete the repo by running: `DELETE FROM repo WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;`

> - **Option 2**

Reviewer: Option 2 is not safe as we also need to rename the repo, I think we should only give them two options.

1. Get the id of the repo by running: `SELECT id FROM repo WHERE uri LIKE 'example.com/example/repo'; `
2. Update the `deleted_at` column of the repo by running: `UPDATE repo SET deleted_at = 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;`

> - **Option 3**

Reviewer: There's a function to rename the repo, so you can run this instead:

```sql
UPDATE repo
SET
  name = soft_deleted_repository_name(name),
  deleted_at = transaction_timestamp()
WHERE deleted_at IS NULL
AND id = <$id_of_the_repo>
```

1. Confirm the name of the repo by running: `SELECT name FROM repo WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;`
2. Update the `name` column of the repo by running: `UPDATE repo SET name = 'DELETED-example.com/example/repo' WHERE id=<$id_of_the_repo>;`

You also can;

> - **Option 3**

Reviewer: It's worth documenting here that deleting the repo from our database does not delete the data on disk on gitserver and these are additional steps required to do that.

Reviewer: The repo will exist on one of our gitserver instances, so you need to find the correct one before connecting to it.

You can get this from the database with:

```sql
SELECT shard_id FROM gitserver_repos where repo_id = <$id_of_the_repo>
```

Exec into `gitserver` by running;

`kubectl exec -it $GITSERVER_POD sh` on Kubernetes

or

`docker exec -it $GITSERVER_CONTAINER` sh on Docker

and then;

1. `cd` into `/data/repos/`
2. Navigate (`cd`) into the codehost/repo-owner
3. Run `rm -rf $repo_name`

## Verifying the repository was removed

To confirm if the repository was removed, either;

1. Exec into `gitserver` by running;

   - `kubectl exec -it $GITSERVER_POD sh` on Kubernetes
   - `docker exec -it $GITSERVER_CONTAINER` sh on Docker then;

2. `cd` into `/data/repos/$codehost/` to confirm that it is in fact deleted.

or

> 1. Exec into `pgsql` and then;

Reviewer: This will only confirm that it's been deleted from our database, not on disk in `gitserver`

Reviewer 3: Do we want to document how to remove the repos from disk? Is that something we foresee wanting to do manually?

Author: I think we should. I'm not quite sure of how to go about this though. Any pointers?

Reviewer: Removing from disk is what you mentioned above where you delete from `/data/repos`

Author: Thanks for the sanity check @ryanslade

# Removing repositores from cloud

There has been (and presumably),will be instances whereby customers using Sourcegraph cloud will request removal of repositories. This document exists as a guide on how to do so.

## Prerequisites

Such a request assumes that the user who intends to delete a repository on behalf of a customer and as per their request, has privileged access to be able to do this on cloud.

An **important** note on this is to be extra vigilant and careful to make sure everything checks out as per the removal request.

Regardless of repository visibility, the process is basically the same and you have the following options to be help accomplish this.

These are as follows:

## Process of removing repositories

We consider the following kinds of repositories;

1. Public forks of private repositories,
2. Public repositories that are made private,

> 3. Public repositories added by other users or organizations other than the owner of the repository and,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Public repositories added by other users or organizations other than the owner of the repository
```
